I imagine the wall to be composed of small articulated robots ( tetrahedron shaped rolly polly like things ). Instead of making the wall from smart robotic elements, they are more simple robotic elements who share their computational and energy across a dynamic network. They have the ability to adhere or repel each other on their joining surfaces using magnetic forces. The culminate effect of many pieces create coordinated locomotive action, giving the Wall a more organic presence than a mechanical one. 

One of the problems is that to coordinate such dynamic action you need lots of processing power. More processing power than a single tetra ( short for tetrahedron ) can provide nor even a network of 1000s of them can provide. That is why they are slaved to a master CPU which is needed to simulate their procedural motion. The Mother Box is a powerful workstation equipped with powerful GPUs running physical simulators to do motion projects for the Wall AI. Using the bullet physics engine it projects the forms of the Wall over time and probability space, finding the best procedural motion paths to realize the desired reality. The tetras are like grains of sand moving along an energy gradient, their localized AI help guide and coordinate them like flocking schools of fish, guided by the Mother Box.

The tetras share both power and communicate through electrical inductive methods along their shared surface. They contain a small CPU, battery, sensors, wifi and internal magnetic motive elements, and can be considered very much like a “cell” of a living creature. They pull and distribute power through a floating network anchored to Power Nodes base stations installed on the floor. As long as a tetra is a part of the network it should have all the power it needs to both perform its computational / sensing task and motive tasks.

Tetras have some sensors, embedded on one surface is a camera. The idea is that a tetra doesn’t need cameras on its all 4 surface since it is a collective organism which shares its sensory information with a group of tetras. This camera feeds to the Mother Box collates this video feed to create a full 3D spatial map of the world around the Wall, this will allow it to better react and interact with people and things. 

The Mother Box can resolve the positioning of the tetras through several means, since all the tetras have wifi connection, it can use wifi positional metrics from several wifi base stations to triangulate the general position of a tetra then using the pairing information from each tetra it can solve the network configuration, using those 2 pieces of information it can resolve in 3D space exactly where a tetra is.

Needless to say an incredible amount of technology is needed to just realize even one aspect of the Wall. Leveraging a myriad of libraries and technologies I've explored over the years and hopefully combined with expert assistance, it can be made a reality.
